Welcome to my first assignment in this course.
If you're new to my courses
and you haven't taken one of my assignments before,
they're a little bit free form
and they're meant to reinforce the stuff you just learned
in the last few
lectures. This is a little bit like my other courses,
where this assignment has it's answer after that
in a video where I do the same steps you're going to do
and I talk a little, out loud,
about why I chose the things I did.
Please don't watch that video first.
I think it's much better for learning
and retaining the knowledge to put your hands on
and try to solve the problems yourself,
and understanding why you're doing it
and think through the issues,
and learn the thing as you go,
and then see my assignment answer after.
And maybe see why yours is a little bit different than
mine,
or how you maybe did it a little different,
and hopefully that will help.
Though in this assignment, you're just going to be using
the Compose
commands you just learned on a simple app that
you actually might recognize from Docker Mastery,
if you've taken that course.
In there, I had a simple node app using the Express
framework.
Here,you're going to be in the sample -O2
directory. In there,
you can do an up command,
which is the typical thing you do at the beginning of the
day.
Then you might control c out of that,
which is similar to stop. Then you might do a down
because it'll take everything down
and you'll do a sort of a fresh start up,
and then you'll use the detached mode
with -d. You might use a log command to
look at all the logs.
Then, I'd like you to use exec to shell into the container
while it's running and try to run cURL localhost.
You'll find that cURL is not installed.
You could just do an Alpine
package install right there in the container,
but I'd rather you back out,
in this case, and edit the Dockerfile because I want you to
see how
the build workflow works.
That is, you're going to edit the Dockerfile
and then do another docker compose up,
and you'll realize that it doesn't rebuild the image
because
you've already built the images.
That's the thing I want to make the point there on is the
--build,
or doing an entire docker compose build,
one of the two, essentially is required,
in order to make sure that Docker Compose builds the
images.
You may not always want to build images every single
time, and we'll see throughout this course cases where you
might want
to do it and might not need to build.
Ideally, you're not having to rebuild constantly on every
change,
right. We're going to talk about that in future lectures.
For now, I just want you to see Docker Compose in a typical
workflow
and how you need to sometimes use build to make a new
image.
That way, when you do the next docker compose up,
you'll have cURL installed
and you can check it.
Remember to clean up. Run this command to shut everything
down
and clean up when you're done.